Writhe

Yep, I did another Silent Hill-esque program, though this time it was not planned. I had some time ago fallen in love with an example on p5.js' site that is this tentacle reaching for the mouse or a bouncing ball. My first idea was to use it to create seaweed flowing in the water, but when I tried to look for some code that could give the ball - that the tentacle reaches for - random paths to go by, one of the codes made its movements become very jagged, resulting in that the tentacle moved in a jagged manner as well. I thought it looked like a nasty monster, so I juiced it up with some Silent Hill soundtrack an a filter - by using the sound and image codes that I have had success with in previous programs. (I apologise for the next section's huge text, but I have tried and failed to fix it)

I do not understand all of the code that I am using, but I at least found out how to change the tentacle's lenght and number of joints, its colors and placement, the ball's starting position and somewhat how it moves.
-
The rule aspect confuses me a bit because I am not sure I know what seperates a rule from the rest of the code. What I could imagine might be rules are; The ball must move in a random pattern, the tentacle must reach for the ball, but not tear itself apart or uproot.
-
My program expresses generativity by being an autonomous system. It lives and works on its own without any external manipulation. This, I think, results in its unpredictability randomeness - of course, the random movements of the tentacle is practically speaking what makes it onpredictable, but again, this is calculated by randomness, and not being predictable, repetitive, or controlled by humans. We understand that the tentacle moves, and in what manner it moves, but we can never predict where it goes next. Even if the music was mainly put in for the effect and mood, I would also go so far as to say that the static is also generative with its unpredictable noises.
